The main heading for the page uses black writing to create an aesthetically pleasing and simple introduction to the page for users. The font used for this heading and all subsequent headings is the google font. This cursive font is used to try and replicate the handwriting which is found in the plans for the prisoner barracks found later on the site. Not only does this font reference some of the documentation from the Islands history it also informs the user of the historical context of the website upon seeing the heading. 
Located underneath this is the navigation bar with a link to the heading located on the far left for easier navigation to the start of the page. Located on the right of the navigation bar are the different sections of the page with this location chosen specifically as a reference to the eastern location of Norfolk Island relative to Australia. The colour of this navigation bar is sky-blue to represent the colour the sky which is a component of the layout of colours on the page.
As mentioned before the titles of the page are the same font as the landing page and are also centred, helping the user to distinguish between the different sections as this is a single page site. The font for all paragraphs and other text, excluding headings is white times new roman used both for readability in contrast to the background colours but also due to the classical look of times new roman accentuating the historical context of the site.
The colour scheme of the site consists of shades of green, grey and blue, each in reference to a part of the area. The green is used to represent not only the pristine natural environment of the area but also the famous Norfolk pines found on the island. The specific colour green used is taken from the Norfolk Island flag which also displays a Norfolk pine. The grey used is in reference to stone, of which many of the early buildings were built of with stone tools also being found on the island. The blue serves as a representation of both the sea and the sky with sky-blue being used for navigation and a deeper, darker blue used to represent the sea. The specific layout of these colours on the site presents an abstract picture of the island with the sea at the bottom, followed by the trees and then the buildings with the sky located at the top of the site.   
